**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Spring**  
**Year: 2015**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessor**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Enlist the greatest breakthrough in microprocessor so that modern processors are available for personal computer. [5]
   b) With reference of bus advancement, differentiate between Harvard Architecture and Von Neumann architecture. [5]
   c) Explain with example the addressing mode of 8085 microprocessor. [5]

2. a) Define instruction set and formats, opcodes, mnemonics and operands with examples. [8]
   b) Write an 8085 program for the following type of addition $1^2 + 2^2 + 3^2 + ... + 9^2$. [7]

3. a) Define T-state. Draw the timing diagrams for the instruction OUT 0FH. [8]
   b) Write a program to take input from 4-switches connected to PC0-PC3 and display the status of the switches to 4 LEDs connected to PC4-PC7 of 8255 PPI. [7]

4. a) What is memory interfacing? Interface two PROM and one RAM with 8KB and 4KB memory respectively with 8085. [8]
   b) Explain the Programmable Interrupt Controller (8259 A) with a suitable block diagram. [7]

5. a) Do you think micro assembler is essential for microprocessor to execute the program? If yes, explain with the difference between: [7]
   i. END and ENDP
   ii. DB and DW
   iii. PROC and EXTRN
   iv. PUBLIC and GLOBAL
   b) Write an 8086 program to find square root of a given number. Given that number is a perfect square of two digits. [8]

6. a) Explain with example the flags of 8086 microprocessor. [8]
   b) Write the difference between serial and parallel communication. Explain the RS232C standard for serial communication. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) 8255 PPI
   b) 80386 microprocessor and its type
   c) Procedures and Macros
