**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Spring**  
**Year: 2018**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessors**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Differentiate between Von-Neumann and Harvard Architecture. Explain fetch, decode and execute cycle in microprocessor with block diagram. [8]
   b) Draw the functional architecture of a 8-bit microprocessor along with diagram and briefly describe about the interrupts available in it. [7]

2. a) Draw and explain a well labelled timing diagram of the instruction MVI A, 32H and calculate the total execution time if clock frequency is 2 MHz. [7]
   b) Write 8085 assembly programming language to find the smallest number among ten 8-bit data's stored in memory location 5000H to 5009H. Also store that value in 9100H and display on output device 51H. [8]

3. a) Define T-state, Machine cycle and Instruction cycle. What are the different addressing modes available in 8085 microprocessor? [7]
   b) What are the three basic functions microprocessor should satisfy to interface any memory chip? Explain how $4096 \times 8$ PROM is interfaced with 8085 microprocessor. [8]

4. a) Draw and explain the control word for 8255A PPI. Also, explain the different operating modes of 8255 PPI. [7]
   b) Write an assembly language program in 8086 to display the string "Computer Engineering" at console. [8]

5. a) What do you understand by macros and procedures? State and explain the different types of assembler directives in 8086. [8]
   b) What are the different dedicated interrupt pointers in 8086 microprocessor? Draw and explain the block diagram of 8086 IVT. [7]

6. a) How DTE and DCE is interfaced with minimum lines using RS232 cable? Explain how two computers can be connected without modem. [8]
   b) What are the different methods of parallel data communication? Explain in detail. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) 8251-USART
   b) Maximum mode and minimum mode of 8086
   c) Microprocessor & Microcontroller
