**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Fall**  
**Year: 2018 (B)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessors**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Explain the microcomputer Architecture. [5]
   b) Compare the Harvard and Von-Neumann architecture. [5]
   c) Draw and explain the timing diagram of MVI M, 05H. [5]

2. a) Write an ALP in 8085 microprocessors to add two 32-bit numbers stored in memory locations starting from 2000H and 3000H respectively. [8]
   b) Define T-state. Draw the labelled timing diagram for the instruction XRA B. [7]

3. a) Explain the functional block of 8237 DMA controller with its pin and internal register. [7]
   b) Explain memory interfacing? How do you Interface two PROM and one RAM with 4kb and 2kb memory respectively with 8085 microprocessor. [8]

4. a) What is the use of 8259 PIC? Draw and explain the functional block diagram of 8259 PIC. [8]
   b) Explain the addressing modes of 8086 with suitable example. [7]

5. a) What do you mean by identifiers and statements? Explain the following directives: TITLE, DOSSEG, MODEL, CODE, DATA, ENDP. [8]
   b) Write a program in 8086 to display "MICROPROCESSOR IS EASY TO LEARN" in lower case. [7]

6. a) Differentiate between synchronous and asynchronous serial data communication and explain the uses of BISYNC protocol in communication. [8]
   b) What is Interrupt Vector Table (IVT)? Draw the IVT for 8086 microprocessor and explain different types of 8086 interrupts with respect to interrupt vector table. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) Microprocessor vs. Microcontroller
   b) Difference between absolute and partial decoding.
   c) RS-232C standard
