**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Fall**  
**Year: 2019 (B)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessor**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Explain the Instruction execution Cycle of microprocessor. [5]
   b) Compare Von-Neumann's Architecture with Havard architecture. [5]
   c) What are Flags? Write the function of all the flags present in 8085 microprocessor. [5]

2. a) What are the different flags of 8085 microprocessor? Explain the addressing modes of 8085 microprocessor with examples of each. [2+6]
   b) Write an ALP in 8085 to perform the following addition: $1^2 + 2^2 + 3^2 + 4^2 + 5^2 + 6^2 + 7^2 + 8^2 + 9^2$. [7]

3. a) Define T-state. Draw the neat and labeled timing diagram for instruction MOV M, B. [8]
   b) Write the function of DMA with suitable diagram and explain the execution of DMA in Master mode and Slave mode. [7]

4. a) Differentiate between partial and complete address decoding. Design an address decoding circuits for two 16KB ROMs at address 2000H. [9]
   b) Explain Polled and Vectored interrupt with suitable block diagram. [6]

5. a) Draw the pin diagram of 8086 microprocessor and explain the different types of FLAGS of 8086. [7]
   b) Write an 8086 ALP for MASM in DOS mode to print each word of a string in different lines. [8]

6. a) What are the different pre-defined interrupts in 8086 microprocessor? Explain with the help of block diagram of 8086 IVT. [8]
   b) How can you transfer the data between two computers without using modem? Draw and explain the interface with handshake Signal. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) Explain the instruction: MVI, ANI, CMP, JNC, NOP
   b) RISC and CISC
   c) RS232 Standard
