**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Spring**  
**Year: 2019 (A)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessor**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) What are the major differences between Microprocessor and Microcontroller? Why Harvard architecture is superior to Von-Neumann Architecture? [4+4]
   b) What are the interrupt pins of 8085 microprocessor? Explain the different methods of handling multiple interrupts. [7]

2. a) Write and assembly language program in 8085 to check whether the number stored in memory location D001 H is positive or negative. If positive store it in C001 else store in C002. Comments in program indicate full marks. [8]
   b) What are the different types of machine cycles in 8085 instructions? Draw the labelled timing diagram for the instruction LDA 30DA H. [2+5]

3. a) Design an Addressing Decoding circuit to interface 2kB RAM, chips each of size 256 bytes with starting address 1001 H. [8]
   b) Define interrupts. Differentiate between I/O mapped I/O and Memory mapped I/O. [7]

4. a) Explain memory interfacing? How do you interface two chips of 4K RAM and one chips of 2K ROM of 8085 with and without fold back addresses, starting address is 8000H? [8]
   b) Write an 8086 ALP to display the string "POKHARA UNIVERSITY" in reverse order. [7]

5. a) What are the different dedicated interrupt pointers in 8086 microprocessor? Draw and explain the block diagram of 8086 IVT table along with related memory address. [8]
   b) What is Macro assembler? Differentiate between Macros and Procedure. [7]

6. a) What are the significance of assemblers directive in microprocessor? List all the assembler's directive of 8086 microprocessor and explain them with example. [8]
   b) What is Synchronous and Asynchronous data transmission? Explain the RS232C standard for serial communication. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) SRAM and DRAM
   b) RIM and SIM Instruction
   c) RS 423A
