**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Fall**  
**Year: 2022**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessors**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Define Microprocessor along with its applications. Differentiate Harvard and Von-Neumann architecture on the basis of storage. [7]
   b) What are the types of instruction depending upon word size? Explain different type of addressing modes of 8085 microprocessor. [8]

2. a) Write an 8085 program to find smallest number among array of numbers. [8]
   b) Define T-state. Draw the labelled timing diagram of the instruction LXI H, 5051H. [7]

3. a) Design an Addressing Decoding circuit to interface 16KB ROM chips with 8085 microprocessors. [8]
   b) Draw a well labelled architecture of 8086 microprocessor and discuss about BIU and EU. [7]

4. a) Explain about IVT of 8086. [7]
   b) What are serial and parallel communication? Explain basics of RS-232. [8]

5. a) Explain the working of DMA. Mention its advantages over programmed and interrupt driven I/O. [8]
   b) Write an ALP in 8086 to display POKHARA UNIVERSITY without using 09h function. [7]

6. a) What is the Asynchronous serial data communication? Compare serial and parallel communication. Draw the Block diagram of 8251A USART and explain functionally in detail. [8]
   b) What is the importance of DAA instruction? Explain it with an appropriate example along with the necessary calculations. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two)
   a) Memory mapped I/O vs I/O mapped I/O
   b) Address Bus, Data Bus and Control Bus
   c) Flags in 8086
