**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Fall**  
**Year: 2023 (A)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessor and ALP (New)**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Define microprocessor. Differentiate between Von Neumann and Harvard architecture along with its block diagram. [7]
   b) Draw the functional block diagram of intel 8085 microprocessor and explain each block. [8]

2. a) Draw and explain a well-labelled timing diagram of the instruction LXI B, D050H and calculate the time required to execute the instruction if frequency = 4MHz. [8]
   b) Write an ALP in 8085 to transfer 10 bytes of data of memory address starting from 5000H to 6000H. Comment in each line indicate full marks. [7]

3. a) What are the major changes and advantages of 8086 over 8085 microprocessors? Explain addressing modes of 8086. [8]
   **OR**
   What are the types of FLAGS available in 8086 microprocessors? Show the Flag position and explain in brief with examples. [7]
   b) Write a 8086 program to find square root of a number. [7]

4. a) What are the assembler directives of 8086? List out some common directives that are used while programming. [7]
   **OR**
   What are Macros? Explain DOS interrupt functions. [8]
   b) Design an address decoding circuit to interface 2KB RAM, 4 KB ROM and 8 KB RAM with initial address 2000H. [7]

5. a) Define parallel interface. Explain 8255 PPI. [8]
   b) Draw and explain the architecture of 8251 USART along with its pins. [7]

6. a) What is the difference between polled and Vectored interrupt handling technique? Explain with necessary diagram. [8]
   b) What are the sources of interrupt? Explain interrupt vector Table. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two)
   a) Microcontroller and applications
   b) Synchronous and Asynchronous Bus
   c) 8259 PIC
