**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Spring**  
**Year: 2024 (A)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessor and ALP (New)**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Show your insight on the development of the very first microprocessor till todays processors. [7]
   b) What is addressing mode? Explain the addressing modes of 8085 with examples. [8]

2. a) Write an assembly language program in 8085 find the sum of Even numbers located from address D050H-D059H and store the result in E055H memory address. [7]
   b) List the machine cycles of 8085 microprocessor. Explain the timing diagram for the 8085 instruction XRI 25H. [8]

3. a) What is the role of pipelining and segmentation in 8086 microprocessor? Explain. [8]
   b) What is macro assembler? Differentiate between macros and procedures. [7]

4. a) Write an 8086 ALP to check whether the given string is palindrome or not. [8]
   b) What are the FLAGS of 8086 microprocessor? List them out with examples. [7]
   **OR**
   Define address decoding. Differentiate between I/O and memory mapped I/O. [7]

5. a) What is address decoding? Design an address decoding circuit to interface 4KB PROM, 8KB RAM and 16KB EPROM. Is this decoding a full or partial? [8]
   b) Draw and explain the architecture of 8251 USART along with its pins. [7]

6. a) How multiple interrupts can be handled using Priority Interrupt Controller? Explain with the help of suitable block diagram. [7]
   b) Explain the mechanism of handling multiple interrupts with proper diagram. [8]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) Maximum and minimum mode of operation
   b) Stack and subroutine
   c) ALP development tools
