**POKHARA UNIVERSITY**

**Level: Bachelor**  
**Semester: Spring**  
**Year: 2024 (C)**  
**Programme: BE**  
**Full Marks: 100**  
**Course: Microprocessors**  
**Pass Marks: 45**  
**Time: 3 hrs.**

*Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.*  
*The figures in the margin indicate full marks.*  
*Attempt all the questions.*

1. a) Why the speed of Von-Neumann architecture is low than Harvard architecture? Explain Von-Neumann architecture with various registers used in it. [7]
   b) Define flags and addressing modes. What are the different addressing modes used in 8085 microprocessor? Explain with examples. [8]

2. a) Draw and explain a well-labelled timing diagram of the instruction ADD M and calculate the time required to execute this instruction if the frequency is 3MHz. [8]
   b) Write and assembly language program in 8085 to find sum of odd numbers located from memory address [C000H] - [C005H] and store the result in [C006H]. [7]

3. a) Draw a circuit for 8085 to interface 2KB RAM and 4KB ROM, With initial address 2000H. [8]
   b) Define interrupts. Differentiate between I/O mapped I/O and Memory mapped I/O. [7]

4. a) Draw and explain the architecture of 8251 USART controller. [7]
   b) What are BIU and EU in 8086 microprocessor? Explain with necessary diagram. [8]

5. a) Write a program in 8086 to find whether a number is positive or negative. [8]
   b) What are the significance of assemblers directive in microprocessor? List all the assembler's directive of 8086 microprocessor and explain them with example. [7]

6. a) Explain with an example the flags of 8086 microprocessor. [8]
   b) RS232 forms a basis for serial data communication standard. Explain with diagram. [7]

7. Write short notes on: (Any two) [2×5=10]
   a) Polled and vectored Interrupt
   b) RS 423A
   c) Evolution of Microprocessors
