# Pokhara University
Level: Bachelor
Programme: BE
Course: Calculus II
Semester: Fall
Year: 2023
Full Marks: 100
Pass Marks: 45
Time: 3hrs.

Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.
The figures in the margin indicate full marks.
Attempt all the questions.

1.
a) Evaluate 

$$
\int_0^2 \int_0^{\sqrt{4-y^2}} \cos(x^2+y^2) dxdy
$$

 by changing into polar integration. [5]
b) Evaluate: 

$$
\int_0^1 \int_0^1 \int_0^1 (x^2+y^2+z^2) dzdydx
$$

 [5]
c) Find the volume in the first octant bounded by the coordinate planes, the cylinder $x^2+y^2=4$ and $z+y=3$. [5]

2.
a) Solve the differential equation 

$$
y''+(1-x^2)y=0
$$

 by using power series method. [7]
b) Define Legendre's equation. Also derive the solution of Legendre's equation. [8]
**OR**
If $J_n(x)$ represents the Bessel's function of order $n$ then show that:
i. 

$$
\frac{d}{dx}[x^n J_n(x)] = x^n J_{n-1}(x)
$$

.
ii. 

$$
J_{\frac{1}{2}}(x) = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\pi x}} \sin x
$$

.

3.
a) State First Shifting Theorem of Laplace transforms. [8]
i. Find the Laplace transform of $t e^{-t} \cosh t$
ii. Find the inverse Laplace transform of 

$$
\frac{1}{s^2-5s+6}
$$

b) Solve the initial value problem: 

$$
y''+4y'+3y=e^{-t}, y(0)=y'(0)=1
$$

 by using Laplace transform. [7]

4.
a) If $\phi = \log(x^2+y^2+z^2)$ then find $\text{div}(\text{grad} \phi)$. [5]
b) Find the directional derivative of $f = x^2yz + 4xz^2$ at $(1, -2, 1)$ in the direction $2\vec{i}-\vec{j}-2\vec{k}$. [5]
c) Calculate: 

$$
\int_C \vec{F} \cdot d\vec{r}
$$

 if $\vec{F}=(y,z,x)$, $C$: $\vec{r} = (t, t^2, t^3)$, from $(0,0,0)$ and $(2,4,8)$. [5]

5.
a) Define Green's Theorem. Evaluate 

$$
\oint_C \vec{F} \cdot d\vec{r}
$$

, where $\vec{F} = (\sin y, \cos x)$ and $C$ is the triangle with vertices $(0,0), (\pi,0), (\pi,1)$, by using Green's theorem. [8]
b) Evaluate 

$$
\oint_C \vec{F} \cdot d\vec{r}
$$

 by using Stoke's theorem, where $\vec{F}=(y^2, z^2, x^2)$ and $C$ is the boundary of the surface $S: x+y+z=1$ in the first octant. [7]
**OR**
Evaluate the surface integral 

$$
\iint_S \vec{F} \cdot \vec{n} dA
$$

 where $\vec{F}=(x^2, y^2, z^2)$ and S: $\vec{r} = (u\cos v, u\sin v, 3v)$, $0 \leq u \leq 1$, $0 \leq v \leq 2\pi$.

6.
a) Find the fourier series of $f(x) = x+|x|$ for $-\pi < x < \pi$. [7]
b) Expand the function $f(x)=x^2$ in the interval $0 < x < \pi$ in half range Fourier cosine series and show that 

$$
\frac{\pi^2}{6} = 1 + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{9} + \frac{1}{16} + \dots
$$

 [8]

7. Solve Any Two: [2x5]
a) Find the general solution of $2u_x+2u_y-u=0$.
b) Derive the one-dimensional traffic flow model using conservation law.
c) Show that the value under integral sign 

$$
\int_{(4,0,3)}^{(-1,1,2)} ((yz+1)dx + (xz+1)dy + (xy+1)dz)
$$

 is exact and evaluate the integral.
